In continuing with security principles,
we're turning our attention to the NIST framework.
We'll learn how to apply the recommendations included
within the framework to our organizations security program.
By the end of this section,
you'll understand what NIST is,
we'll review several sample standards.
Finally, we'll compare the NIST 800 standards with the NIST cybersecurity framework.
Where does NIST fit in our three component model of security,
primarily in prevention and detection.
So what exactly is NIST?
NIST is the National Institute of Standards and Technology.
It was founded in 1901 to help
the US industrial sector standardize technology, metrics and measurements.
It has since been expanded to include thousands of standards relating to computers,
nuclear, AI, and many other technologies.
NIST compliance is mandatory for many federal contracts.
It is such a ubiquitous standard to
many commercial contracts including the framework as well.
For this course, we'll be focusing on standards within the NIST 800 framework,
but also taking a look at the NIST cybersecurity framework.
Let's look at a few examples.
As stated before, there are many NIST standards that apply to cyber security.
We're going to be taking a look at three sample standards.
Remember, you use standards as guides to
assist in setting up the various components of your security program.
Let's kick things off with NIST 800-41 Revision 1,
one of the standards for firewalls.
It includes information on firewall types and technologies,
which we'll visit in lesson 2.
It provides network design examples and recommendations via high-level network layouts.
The standard provides terminology and
information regarding access control in networking protocols.
Finally, it gives advice on planning
your firewall implementation by consulting the standard,
as well as manufacturer documentation when architecting your edge defenses,
you are developing a formidable layer in your defensive layout.
The next example is the 800-123 General Server Security Standard.
While this particular example is considered a legacy standard,
it is worth visiting for the principles contained in it.
Use it when discussing server implementation at a conceptual level.
Specifically, it contains valuable information for server vulnerabilities and threats,
as well as acting as a guide for categorizing what level
of risk a particular server may represent given its purpose.
Next, it has considerations for deploying your server in terms of datatypes,
applications, and network requirements.
800-123 also offers recommendations on security controls from physical,
to logins, to security updates.
Finally, the standard gives recommendations on logging and monitoring.
Remember, this standard is not
a procedure in that it does not provide specific instructions.
Rather, it offers valuable insights in the form of server security principles.
The final NIST 800 example we'll learn about is 800-175B, Revision 1.
If your organization is considering implementing encryption,
this standard will provide valuable insight.
This standard provides important terminology,
as well as offers technical specification from the IEEE and IETF,
that's Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers
and Internet Engineering Task Force, respectively.
It provides high-level technical explanations on technologies such as cryptography,
hash generation, and verification.
Finally, the standard offers
valuable information and recommendations on Key Generation and Management.
Now, we're turning our attention to the NIST Cybersecurity Framework.
The CSF was created in 2014,
and Version 1.1 was released in 2018.
It is a high level document aimed at the executive level of industries and governments.
What are some items included in the Cybersecurity Framework?
Strategies for identity management, risk assessments,
managing security in the supply chain,
and vulnerability disclosures and more.
How do you use the CSF?
First, you determine what your security profile is.
That means, is your company at the forefront of being proactive about security?
Or do you typically wait and react when an event occurs?
Ideally, you want to be more proactive and less reactive.
At this point, you're ready for a risk assessment.
Many organizations began with a self-assessment to resolve any obvious discrepancies.
But to get a clear understanding,
it's best to consult an outside vendor.
The vendor will produce
a post assessment report that will include a list of gaps and your security.
Often these will be categorized from critical to simple recommendation.
You'll want to analyze this report with your management team.
Once the report has been analyzed and priorities are set,
you develop a plan of action to remedy the findings and start again.
So which should you use?
The NIST 800 framework or the Cybersecurity Framework? Use both.
The NIST 800 standards are more practical and offer specific recommendations to secure
your organization while the CSF is a
bit more theoretical and is aimed at the leadership level.
Using both will allow you to explain to
the executive team how your security tactics align with their strategy.